UI Cookbook Guides (#482)
GetStream/stream-video-flutter: docusaurus/docs/Flutter/06-ui-cookbook/05-watching-a-livestream.mdx

# Watching a Livestream

This sample walks you through building advanced UIs for watching a livestream on Flutter.

:::note
In this cookbook tutorial, we will assume that you already know how to join a livestream call. If you haven't familiarized yourself with the **[Livestream Tutorial](https://getstream.io/video/docs/flutter/livestreaming/)** yet, we highly recommend doing so before proceeding with this cookbook.
::::

To view an HLS stream and benefit from the full experience of selecting different streaming qualities and performing different player actions like muting and unmuting the stream, we recommend using [lecle_yoyo_player](https://pub.dev/packages/lecle_yoyo_player).

When building for livestreaming, there are a few considerations you need to keep in mind for the UI:

- UI for when the video isn't loaded yet
- A message to show when the livestream hasn't started yet
- What to show when the livestream stopped
- How to indicate when there are connection problems
- Number of participants
- Duration of the call

## Setting up the UI

> To setup our UI for rendering a livestream, we can use Flutter’s built in `StreamBuilder` widget for listening to changes in our call state and rendering different UIs based on the stage of our live stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup our UI for rendering a livestream, we can use Flutter’s built-in `StreamBuilder` widget for listening to changes in our call state and rendering different UIs based on the stage of our live stream:
```

        builder: (context, snapshot) {
          final callState = snapshot.data!;
          return Stack(
            children: [
              if (snapshot.hasData && !callState.isBackstage)
								// TODO: Render Video

              if (snapshot.hasData && !callState.isBackstage)
							 // TODO: Render Participant Count

              if (!snapshot.hasData)
								// TODO: Render loading indicator

              if (snapshot.hasData && callState.isBackstage)
							 // TODO: Display message call is not live

            ],
          );
        },
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

By looking at different properties on our `CallState`, we can render different UIs and messages based on whether the call is live, backstage, or loading. A `Stack` also allows us to add different secondary live stream elements such as a view count above the main UI.

## Rendering the Livestream
Before running the code below to see the livestream in action, we recommend going to our [Dashboard](https://dashboard.getstream.io/) and creating a livestream first since it can be done visually without having to create another instance of the application on the simulator.

> Once a stream is started on the dashboard, the `Livestream ID` can be passed as the `call id` in code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a stream is started on the dashboard, the `Livestream ID` can be passed to the `id` parameter for the `Call` object in code.
```
